here are the detailed steps to create a self-signed certificate with OpenSSL in Windows:

Prerequisites

  OpenSSL for Windows (can be downloaded from https://slproweb.com/products/Win32OpenSSL.html)
  Administrative access to the computer
Steps

1.Install OpenSSL for Windows by following the instructions in the installer wizard. Make sure to add OpenSSL to your system PATH so that you can run OpenSSL commands from any directory in PowerShell.
2. Open PowerShell as an Administrator.
3. Navigate to the directory where you want to generate the certificate.
4. Run the following command to generate a new private key
    openssl genrsa -out key.pem 2048
  
   This command generates a new 2048-bit RSA private key and saves it to a file called "key.pem" in the current directory.
5.Run the following command to generate a new self-signed certificate using the private key:
 openssl req -new -x509 -key key.pem -out cert.pem -days 365
 This command generates a new self-signed X.509 certificate that is valid for 365 days and saves it to a file called "cert.pem" in the current directory.
 
6.Verify that the certificate was created by running the following command:
  openssl x509 -in cert.pem -noout -text
  This command displays information about the certificate, including its subject and issuer.

7.(Optional) Export the certificate to a file that can be imported into other applications or servers by running the following command:
  openssl x509 -outform der -in cert.pem -out cert.crt

  This command exports the certificate to a DER-encoded file called "cert.crt" in the current directory.
  
  And that's it! You should now have a self-signed certificate that can be used for testing purposes. Note that since this is a self-signed certificate, it will not be trusted by default by most web browsers or other applications that require a trusted certificate. If you need to use the certificate in a production environment, you will need to obtain a trusted certificate from a certificate authority (CA).
